---
title: Site Navigation (Language and Conventions)
label: Site navigation
---

## Bread Crumbs
This IA element shows the Veteran the path to the current page or where the page lives in the IA (not all pages follow a path). Bread crumb text should be headline capped.

## Buttons
Text for buttons should be headline capped.

## Title of Page
The name of each page should be headline capped.

## Top Nav
Text for the top nav should be sentence capped.

## Linking Conventions
Opt for links set apart from text rather than embedded links. When possible, place links outside running text, either at the end of a paragraph or on a separate line following the paragraph. However, it is ok to embed links when we want to encourage the user to browse to find a link to a deeper page. PL stresses clarity in general and the use of calls to action specifically to enhance clarity. With embedded links, it can sometimes be fuzzy what one would be linking to. With links that are clear calls to action, it tells the user exactly what they're going to do when they click the link.

- Use descriptive and actionable words and phrases that tell users where the link will take them. Don’t use the following non-informative, general link phrases:
  - Click here
  - Learn more
  - See more
  - Read more

It may make sense to start a link phrase with these words if the rest of the phrase is specific and descriptive. But you can often do without these overused words altogether by using more specific verbs or starting with key words. Above all, be sure your users know what to expect (where they will land) when they click.

- Pay attention to link length. Make the link long enough that it’s easy to click on. Don’t make it so long that the relevant words are lost among the less important words.
  - 5-8 words for embedded links. Don’t link entire sentences in running text.
  - Entire sentences or phrases when the link is set apart from the running text, either by placing it at the end of a paragraph or by inserting a space between the running text and the link.

- Don’t link ending punctuation. You don’t want the period to be underlined. If a string of words at the end of a sentence is linked, use punctuation (usually a period) as grammar would dictate, but don’t link it.

- **Don't** code hyperlinks so they open in a new window: To keep the experience consistent across the entire Vets.gov website, we code all hyperlinks to behave in the same way.

### External Linking

Vets.gov uses an icon to alert Veterans, without being overly burdensome, that a link will take them to an external site. We don’t use a pop-up or a modal warning. This standard practice does not apply to external links in the vets.gov footer, where no icon accompanies the links to Twitter, Facebook, and other external pages.
- An icon is autogenerated whenever there is a full link beginning with http, such as: http://vabenefits.vba.va.gov/vonapp/main.asp
- No icon will appear when a link is relative (one that begins with a forward slash followed by the Vets.gov section or page name) and takes Veterans to an internal vets.gov page, such as:
/disability-benefits/conditions/ptsd/.

**Note:** The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) does not require the use of pop-up notifications for outbound links. See [M-10-23](https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/assets/memoranda_2010/m10-23.pdf) and [M-05-04](https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/memoranda/fy2005/m05-04.pdf) for this official guidance.

## Interface Elements
(Adapted from the ["Technical and interface writing"](https://pages.18f.gov/content-guide/technical-and-interface-writing/) section of the 18F Content Guide.)

Guide the customer with words reflective of the interface. Take the customer step by step through the process. Be specific about what the customer needs to click on or choose from. Use clear, active verbs to tell readers how to interact with interface elements:

- *Choose* from drop-down menus.
- *Select* or *deselect* checkboxes and radio buttons.
- *Click* or *tap* buttons.
- *Follow* or *open* links.

Emphasize the name of the interface label by making it bold:

In the **File** menu, choose **Save**.
Select **I agree**.
Click **Continue**.

In tools such as Resume Builder and the Health Care Application, the boxes where Veterans enter information have descriptors above them identifying what information should be entered. For instance, "First name" and "Branch of service." Sentence cap these descriptors (so, not "First Name" and "Branch of Service").
